# wordgen

Generating words using an RNN. Example: English place names.

## Summary

This repo contains code that takes in a list of words, trains a model to predict the next letter of a word using an RNN, and hence learns stochastically generates new words.

The code is applied in an example to English place names.
These were found from the dataset [here](https://geoportal.statistics.gov.uk/datasets/6cb9092a37da4b5ea1b5f8b054c343aa/about).
However, only a few lines of code need to be adapted to apply this to any other dataset of words: one would only need to change the `preprocessing.extract_raw_words` function.

The project was inspired by the PyTorch NLP tutorial found [here](https://pytorch.org/tutorials/intermediate/char_rnn_generation_tutorial.html).

## Procedure

One should first run the `download_unzip_data.sh` in the `data/` directory to get the data.
Then, run `main.py` in the `src/` directory.
This requires the following packages (there aren't that many so I won't bother with a `requirements.txt` file):
- `matplotlib`
- `numpy`
- `pandas` (for the example)
- `torch`
- `tqdm`

## Results

The example results are in the `results/` folder.

`loss_curve.png` shows the loss curve, which converges in the training period specified in `main.py`.
`trained_model.py` saves the weights of the resulting model.

`generated_words.txt` gives some examples of words generated by the model.
Some of these are pretty good!
- Doweston
- Chamett
- Greston
- Harney
- Kinsby
- Broxan
- St Kelancrowe
- Choosby
- Bridgfeed

Some of them sound like words, but haven't quite got the idea...
- Ladgourton
- Beancord Gead
- Wicthom
- Llam (sounds Welsh; even though only English place names were in the training set)
- Stondungam (sounds Scottish)
- Wolthalle (sounds German)
- Wondwresher (sounds dangerous)
- Whorest (sounds... NSFW)

Some of them are pretty unpronounceable:
- Stlost En
- Ckmrth (no vowels??)
- Lmick
- Wlitts Ead
- Histrre
Maybe a larger model could do better.

My personal favourite: Hommanhamalm. 